Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture we're going to look at using a while loop what are functions.
So what are functions we can use only in all of appliance data structures that we've just got so far.
So now this lecture lets out a one loop to one of our previous program which was our formatted name
program.
So what I've done is I've gone out and I copied and pasted back in here are formatted name program or
code from an earlier lecture.
And the only thing I've changed is I've had that underscore to the front of our function name.
So go ahead and do that now.
OK welcome back.
So once you have that copy and paste it don't what you need to do is you need to add in the following
wild fruit.
So we're using our flag.
Wild fruit print
backslash and so new line.
What is your name.
OK.
Close or quote's closer brackets.
So first name
equals import because we're taking input from the user this time.
That's why I'm in my idle and not my subline Id
first name
last name equals input
last name.
OK.
Closer quotes close our brackets.
Next we want our format names.
Let's create a variable formatted name to take our functions are formatted name equals get formatted
name and the arguments of pass that are first name
and last name.
OK there we go.
And then finally print
backslash.
And so we have a nice clean line.
Hello come space closer quotes plus formatted name plus
exclamation point closer brackets.
OK.
Let's run that and see what we get.
First we have to save it and then run it.
OK what is your name first name.
Tony last name standon.
OK let's just give it a go first name.
Jim last name Smith OK.
So as you can see here I did lowercase Jim lowercase Smith and it gave me a nice clean formatted.
Jim Smith but you might notice now it was a problem.
Frank Murphy our program just keeps going keeps going keeps going there is no way to exit this program
there's no break there's no there's no way to quit There's no way to stop.
So how do we do that.
Well let's look at changing our wild statement now and adding in the option to quit our program.
So let me close this kill it yes kill what we want to do.
Now if you want to edit this with our new code and how do we do that for us you need to just zap all
of this here.
So let's zap this.
Here we go.
And we need to keep our wild through.
We have print
backslash and
what is your name so similar as before.
Question macros are quote bracket's print and this is a different part now.
Press Q
At any time to quit this program
so now we are back to our first name.
So first name he quotes and put
us name
and we're going to say no here if first name
is Q..
So somebody typed in Q break so forget your colon break.
And going do something very similar with our last name so last name equals input
brackets quote last name closer quote closer brackets if last name
is q.
So if the user types in Q break so now we can actually exit our program so format name equals get formatted
name
first name
last name.
Close brackets and then print
backslash and hello Comus space close or quote Plus formatted name
plus exclamation point.
Close quote.
OK so now let's just have a quick look what we total user here is at the time press cute.
Exit the program then.
We've asked for user input of our first name and we've added an if statement here.
If the first name is q.
Break down for us of someone whose name happens to be Q We're out of luck.
So if first name is q break and then the same last name is last name is q break.
Otherwise print out Hello under formatted name.
Now let's save this and run it and see what we get.
What is your name.
So Tony your case stones in lowercase nicely formatted Q quits.
Nothing happens.
So in this lecture we've looked at a couple of pieces now.
We've looked at how to put a wire loop into our functions and also how to use the break statement to
exit programs whenever the user wants.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.